---
title: 2014-year-in-review
date: 2015-01-01 23:30:46 Z
layout: post
comments: true
---

Some years you blog, others you just retrospect. Actually despite only writing
two posts this year, I managed to blog a fair bit over at [the WealthBar blog][1],
so if you want to read my thoughts on personal finance and investing check that
out. Nonetheless this has been one of my most interesting and challenging years
so far. I don't think anything could really have prepared me for the realities
of starting a business, but it has been extremely rewarding all the same.

<!--more-->

## 2014 Highlights

Obviously [launching Canada's first completely online wealth management
firm](http://blog.wealthbar.com/wealthbar-is-officially-launched/) has to be the
biggest highlight this year. It was a long hard road to get here and one that
promises to offer even more challenges as we grow and as more clients join us
each day. Nonetheless, there is nothing that motivates me more each morning than
getting up and knowing I'll be working at WealthBar. I'm also working with some
absolutely amazing people.

The Polyglot conference had it's third consecutive year and we're already
making preparations for the fourth, it has grown larger with each year and
we've also continued to help other local events logistically such as Devops
Days and Erlang Factory Lite.

I've also really enjoyed my continuing work with web development this year. The
changes happening with HTML, CSS and JS can be frustrating at times, but they
are also really exciting. [Tyler Kellogg](https://github.com/recurrenc://github.com/recurrence)
who just joined us, recently showed me some incredible AngularJS code that
takes advantage of ES6 features and the more modern components structure that
has really rekindled my love of AngularJS, something I was starting to feel a
bit of frustration with, but I think I'm at peace with it now.

Finally, I started playing D&D this year for the first time since I was
probably about 14 years old, Tea plays with me as well. Surprisingly, I had
kept my old game dice this whole time too. Suppose I always knew I'd play it
again someday. We're playing through a pretty epic pre-written campaign called
Tsar, which has been a lot fun. I think we're just starting to get into the
endgame after many months of play. It has quickly become one of the things I
really look forward to each week.

## Personal Development

I'm happy to say I've been able to stick to a dedicated twice a week regimen of
exercise. I work with a trainer twice a month and follow a program for the rest
of the month. It's been working great and I've so far managed to not fall off
the wagon (well alright, I took the last week off).

I've also managed to keep coding, I'd say at least half of my time is still
spent writing code. Keeping it at that level has been a challenge. There are
many new responsibilities on my plate: HR, product development, content
strategy and marketing. But I don't think I'll ever want to stop writing code.

## Interesting Reading

I didn't really put a lot of effort into tracking my reading this year.
Something to work on next year I think. Regardless, here is a very short, and
likely very incomplete, list of some interesting things I read online this
year.

1. [An Open Letter on Feminism in Tech][2]
2. [Monkeys can Beat Market Cap Indicies][3]
3. [Thoughts on Startup School][4] 
4. [The Oil Crisis Explained in 3 Minutes][5]

I also really enjoyed reading [Hedge Fund Wizards][6] by Jack Schwager. Whether or
not you agree with hedge funds and active trading, the interviews with some of
the top hedge fund managers are still very fascinating and insightful. These
are very smart people with very unique perspectives on investing and economics.

The Ed Thorp interview (if you haven't heard of him, he was also the guy who
cracked Blackjack with Claude Shannon using probability theory) is worth the
price of book alone.

## Onwards to 2015!

There aren't really words for just how excited I am for 2015 and everything
that's happening with WealthBar. It has been extremely rewarding to build
something that is really starting to help people save their money.

[1]: http://blog.wealthbar.com
[2]: https://modelviewculture.com/pieces/an-open-letter-on-feminism-in-tech
[3]: http://www.cass.city.ac.uk/news-and-events/news/2013/april/monkeys-beat-market-cap-indices
[4]: http://www.daemonology.net/blog/2014-10-18-thoughts-on-startup-school.html
[5]: http://blog.nvestly.com/oil-crisis-explained-in-3-minutes/
[6]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1118273044/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1118273044&linkCode=as2&tag=lucisferre-20&linkId=VSRGNFXABA4WOAJF
